My mum was Tommy's sister.
My dad was... been...
a police officer.
By the time of our inquiry
in 2015,
Thurwell had taken
early retirement,
believed to be
living in Spain.
Two dead, sir.
Marcus Thurwell,
Senora Thurwell.
You want to talk about rats,
ask your boss.
Superintendent Hastings?
He told me there was a rat
in our crew.
That rat turned out to be
an undercover copper,
John Corbett.
I think I've found the real
reason the Gaffer gave
50 grand to Steph Corbett.
Superintendent Hastings
has been informed
of his impending retirement.
We have identified
a number of
high-ranking figures
in a clandestine network
of corrupt police officers.
This force has detected
no evidence of
institutionalised corruption.
We are so close to breaking
open Operation Lighthouse
and OCG involvement
in Gail Vella's murder!
The case Gail Vella
was researching
at the time of her death
was the murder
of Lawrence Christopher.
That was, what, 20 years ago?
I've been looking into
all the officers that were
involved in the Lawrence
Christopher murder inquiry.
Detective Constable
Ian Buckells,
Inspector Philip Osborne.
Sorry, wrong way.
Not only does this
force face enemies without,
there are enemies within.
I will personally see to it
those enemies within
are made to suffer
the consequences.
And later that same day
you visited Lee Banks,
an OCG member
on remand
in Blackthorn prison.
Yes. To harvest
information on the OCG.
When DS Arnott quite rightly
did not deploy lethal force
against John Corbett,
did you take matters
into your own hands
and disclose to Lee Banks
that John Corbett was an
undercover police officer...
-No, I did not.
-disclosing this information
with the expectation
that it would be passed on
to the OCG?
-No.
The stuff
he's hiding,
I never thought I'd look
at the Gaffer like this.
He knows his time's nearly up.
He's been slated
for retirement.
Shit.
I've been waiting for
the right time to tell you.
Maybe we should let
sleeping dogs lie.
Come off it, Steve.
How many times have
we criticised coppers
that took retirement
to dodge disciplinary action?
You got anything more
from Steph Corbett?
No, I think about asking her.
She's got a right to know
what happened to her husband.
Maybe she already does?
She might be blackmailing
the Gaffer.
Steph? No.
You seem pretty sure.
What?
-We've become...
-Oh, for Christ's sake, Steve!
It's not like that, mate.
-It's different.
She's a Person of Interest.
Chris.
Yeah, we'll be right there.
GPR detected a strong
subsurface diffractor
and I gave a go-ahead
for a dig
which revealed a strong box
of the type
detected at the abandoned
printshop.
Nice one, Chris.
-Thanks, Ma'am.
Let's get EOD
to rule out booby traps,
then proceed to
forensic recovery.
Sir.
Let's find out
what's in there.
Alright if I call you Steve?
Fine.
It's taken a while
to organise his consultation.
Are you able to tell me
why that might be, Steve?
Just work, sorry.
In the medical declaration
form that you submitted
at the time of your
urine sampling, you listed
a number of
over-the-counter painkillers.
Uh, for what condition?
Hurt my knee at five-a-side.
My shoulder was squash.
SMTU detected levels of
metabolites in your urine,
consistent with the ingestion
of very high doses
of analgesics.
In April 2017,
you suffered a serious assault
whilst on duty.
I'm fully recovered.
Recently been involved
in an operation
in which a number of suspects
have been killed.
One having been shot dead
by you
and one of your colleagues,
PS Ruby Jones,
lost her life.
Yeah.
That's not the first time
you've witnessed
a colleague's violent death.
DCI Tony Gates was killed
in a road traffic collision.
DC Georgia Trotman,
your partner
was thrown from a window...
-Where you going with this?
-Steve...
I'm satisfied that
none of the substances
you've been taking
are illegal.
This is purely about
your welfare.
I'm here to help, not judge.
You might benefit from
some time off work.
No.
No way. I'm in the middle
of a massive case.
Do your duties routinely
involved firearms
or high-speed pursuit driving?
Sometimes.
Normally, in this situation,
we suggest that the officer
voluntarily surrenders
their blue ticket.
Otherwise, I'm obliged to
report you to Head of Firearms
who will then remove
your firearms license.
-Okay.
-Thank you.
So I'd like you to have some
medical investigations
and then review you
with the results.
Can we agree on that?
Fine.
I'm also obliged to inform
your commanding officer.
Yeah.
Steve?
I want you to hear it
from me first, sir.
I'm under medical review.
The drugs testing found
high doses of painkillers.
Yeah, well...
I'm just glad you're getting
some help with it, son.
If there's anything I can do
just let me know.
Thank you very much, Sir.
Yeah.
Take your time,
take your time.
You're doing well, Jo.
So, Tommy hid from you
he was your real father?
Yes.
Who did you believe
was your father?
This person,
did he control you
the same way Tommy Hunter did?
-This person,
Did he control you
the same way Tommy Hunter did?
You have
one new message.
Steve, it's Steph.
God, I hate these
message thingy's.
It's just I ain't
heard from you in a while.
I hope you're alright.
Coppers wife me,
I can't help but worry.
That's it really, bye.
Thanks, guys.
Sure, Sarge.
So the excavation detected
a strongbox.
The contents of the box are
itemised as follows.
KL-2.
A non-standard pistol,
believed to be workshopped
from a decommissioned firearm.
NABIS have matched
the pistol
to the tailored cartridge
and bullet
recovered from the scene
of Gail Vella's murder.
Almost certainly,
this is the weapon
that fired the fatal shot.
-Fingerprints? DNA?
-No. It was clean.
Almost certainly
the gunman was wearing gloves.
KL-4, KL-5,
gloves and
a black bomber jacket.
Both items bear blood spatter
and gunshot residue.
The blood is Gail Vella's.
-DNA inside the gloves?
-Yes, Ma'am.
Sweat deposits
inside the gloves
matched DNA
belonging to Carl Banks.
-Got the bastard.
-Yes sir.
We can match Banks
to the gloves
and the gloves
to Gail Vella's murder.
He's the shooter.
Any of it related
to Terry Boyle?
No Sir, nothing.
Great. Next.
GN-1.
I'm sorry to be the bearer
of distressing news.
This knife is stained with
the blood of an AC-12 officer,
PC Maneet Bindra.
Fingerprints on the handle
match Ryan Pilkington.
GN-2.
This knife is stained with
the blood of DS John Corbett.
Fingerprints on the handle
match Ryan Pilkington.
GN-3.
This knife is stained with
the blood of Jackie Laverty.
Fingerprints on the handle
match a deceased
police officer,
DCI Tony Gates.
Gates told me the OCG
slit Jackie's throat
and while he was incapacitated
they put his hand
on the knife.
They blackmailed him
with the threat of releasing
Jackie's body and
the murder weapon.
That's why all these items
were retained.
They're leverage,
going back years,
right up to it being a threat
to Ryan Pilkington.
Anything else?
Any items related to one
or more of the following?
Marcus Thurwell, Ian Buckells.
No, nothing.
Philip Osborne.
The Chief Constable?
What?
Great work, you two.
Great work.
Cast-iron proof
that Carl Banks murdered
Gail Vella.
I've got a call later
with the Crown Prosecutor.
I'm sure we can persuade them
to withdraw proceedings
against Terry Boyle.
Great.
Well, that's the least
we can do for the wee fella.
Any updates from Spain?
They formally identified
the bodies found at the villa.
They are Marcus Thurwell
and his wife.
Both have been strangled.
And from the extent
of decomposition,
they'd been dead a few weeks.
A search of the property
detected equipment
used for routing
digital communications
with an IP address
matching the ones
detected on devices
belonging to Jo Davidson
and Lisa McQueen.
From the evidence gathered
by Spanish authorities,
Cybercrime are still
trying to trace
all end-user IP addresses
but initial work suggests
they're located in the UK.
Oh, so the communication
originated here?
Exactly.
So, Spain is a decoy.
Thurwell's a stooge.
Jesus!
Have you seen
Superintendent Hastings?
Yes, he's just
through there.
-Sir.
Huh?
-Sorry to barge in.
-What have we got?
I knew you'd want to
see this straight away.
We've been monitoring messages
being routed via Spain.
This is a screenshot
of a text exchange
we intercepted
a few minutes ago.
We're working on identifying
the IP addresses.
JD. Jo Davidson.
BP. Brentiss prison.
I thought you put Davidson
on elevated monitoring.
Yeah, but we can't take
the chance
that that's gonna work out.
Look at the spelling
of "definitely."
This is the Fourth Man. Chloe,
all these new files
have come in,
Operation Lighthouse,
Lawrence Christopher...
I want you to carry out
a search
on this spelling
against anybody
that we haven't
previously investigated.
But good work.
-Steve, Kate, with me.
Sir.
Stand away
from the door.
Production Order.
Post-charge interview.
Hillside Lane.
What's going on?
Alpha Charlie One Zero,
en route to Brentiss,
standing by for sit rep.
Alpha Charlie
Five Two, copy.
Zero State Five
to Brentiss prison.
Stand by for active message.
One Zero, receiving.
Five Two,
the Governor at Brentiss
has approved
a Production Order
for Davidson.
She's State Nine
to Hillside Lane.
Three seven,
first I've heard of it.
Who's the requesting officer?
DS Lomax.
And the supporting officer?
That's you, Ma'am.
DI Fleming.
Shit!
One Zero, we are
diverting to the Hill.
Four five, received.
Driver, put your foot
flat on the floor.
One Zero,
Five Two, acquire information
on Prison Transport
and capture location
as a matter
of extreme urgency.
We need Air Ops
and Armed Support! Over.
Five Two, received.
What is this interview about?
Who's the requesting officer?
How should I know?
Our job is just to
get you there.
Are there any new developments
in the inquiry?
Stop with the earache.
N-PAS Seven Five,
acquiring active obs
on Prison Transport Vehicle
white VW Crafte,
VRN Bravo Papa Six Zero Papa
Tango Quebec.
Suspect vehicle is travelling
south Alpha Three Four,
speed Three Zero, one mile
to Edge Park Circus underpass.
Tango Oscar Four Two,
receiving N-PAS Seven Five,
State Five Edge Park Circus,
ETA less than one minute.
N-PAS Seven Five,
suspect vehicle
entering Underpass.
Tango Oscar Four Two.
All ARVs move in,
intercept, intercept.
Keys! Give us the keys!
Armed police! Drop it!
-Taser! Taser!
Drop it!
Get out of
the vehicle!
Hands!
Show me your hands!
Down! Down!
Hands above your head!
Four five, scene secure.
Unarmed, clear to approach.
Paramedic required.
Four Five, received.
Paramedic unit
will move forwards,
ETA 30 seconds,
standing by for...
Arrest her.
Stick her in the back
-with her wee mate.
Sir.
Great work, you two.
-Great work.
-Sir.
The prison officers
and driver
have been taken into custody.
We've recently gained access
to illicit communications
between OCG members.
Fortunately, we were able to
intercept your
Prison Transport
and replace
two of the prison officers
before the OCG
got their hands on you.
The production order
was a forgery.
Now we're looking into
how that was done.
Enabling corrupt prison
officers to stage a handover
they could claim afterwards
was an ambush.
They're all under arrest.
You're safe now, Jo.
Thank you.
I mean, you're really safe
to apply for
witness protection.
All my notes, all my records
will show that
you acted under control
and coercion of others.
You can live the life
you should have lived.
Be free to be the person
that you really are
if you tell us
who the top man is.
We know from
the illicit communications,
you were taken out
of Brentiss to be killed.
We strongly believe the order
came from the same person
who's been communicating
with you
throughout Operation Lighthouse.
This person you're protecting
doesn't care for you.
You mean nothing to him.
This man you believe
to be your father.
Is he the one?
Tommy told me
after my mom died.
I had no reason to doubt him.
He made me obey
this police officer.
He made me fear him.
Yeah.
It was all a cruel lie
to manipulate you,
to control you.
You know what
you were born into.
You're not bent.
Be free of him, Jo.
Give him up.
Give us his name.
Prison officers
are isolating the suspect.
AFOs will
secure the suspect.
Advise when unarmed officers
are clear to proceed.
Sir!
When clear
to proceed,
FIs will deploy to
the suspect's cell.
Sir.
Nothing.
-Not so much as a post-it.
-Shit.
Has he said anything yet?
-Not yet, Sir.
-Let's go.
Resuming interview.
Superintendent Hastings
has joined.
You remain under caution.
So, where have you
hidden it all?
The computer,
the burner phones.
I don't know
what you're talking about.
I get mixed up.
You packed Thurwell off
to Spain, didn't you,
to be your go-between?
-Images 76 and 77.
Spain?
What would I
have to do with Spain?
Thurwell could
point the finger.
So you had him killed.
Like Dot Cottan and
ACC Hilton, right?
All these names,
my head's spinning now.
And Gail Vella. Did you order
her murder too?
I haven't the faintest idea
who you're talking about.
Joanne Davidson. What's your
relationship to her?
-Joanne who?
-Davidson!
We know about her relationship
to Tommy Hunter
and to a police officer
purported to be her father.
Are you the officer?
Did you have a relationship
with Joanne Davidson's mother,
Samantha Davidson?
For the DIR, I'm showing
the interviewee image 17,
a copy of a photograph
captured during
a lawful search
of apartment G,
9 Croxford Street
on the 24th of November 2020.
Who can you see in image 17?
Sorry.
The woman is
Samantha Davidson,
also known as Samantha Hunter.
Tommy Hunter's sister.
And the girl in the photo.
I have not the foggiest.
It's
Joanne Davidson.
Okay, let me ask you this,
did you and Tommy Hunter
convince her
that you were her father?
You, you, you.
You're going back years.
I don't remember any of this.
I'm not as sharp
as I used to be.
Christ sake!
Superintendent Hastings
has left the room.
Yes, we're going back years.
He's bloody right.
We've been going back years.
This thing has been
driving me mad for years.
Cybercrime aren't finished
tracing IP addresses, Sir.
There's still a possibility
they'll detect evidence
pointing at Fairbank
Look, he's been in that prison
since 2015.
Our search should've
shown up something.
It's Chloe.
So answer it, answer it!
DI Arnott.
She's found something
in the Lawrence Christopher
records.
Well let's go.
Cybercrime have been examining
all the devices seized
from Davidson, Buckells,
Lisa McQueen
and the OCG men who attempted
to abduct Davidson.
As suggested by
Superintendent Hastings,
they carried out a search
for idiosyncrasies
in grammar,
punctuation and spelling.
You'll recall this is
the last communication
we intercepted.
And this is the last exchange
between Jo Davidson and
the user she believed
was Patrick Fairbank.
Cybercrime told me
they picked up
on the mis-spelling
of "definitely"
going back to exchanges
with Lisa McQueen in 2019.
We've been able to
extend the search
into files that
we didn't have back then.
This is a handwritten report
from the Lawrence Christopher
inquiry in 2003.
And this is from Operation
Lighthouse in 2019.
Christ!
Shit!
This is the officer's
signature on both reports,
2003 and 2019.
Come off it. No way.
This can't be right.
Are you sure, Chloe?
Cybercrime are attempting
to trace IP addresses
that correspond
to this suspect.
Then we'll know for sure.
Right. Well,
they better crack on.
Outstanding work, Chloe,
outstanding work.
Sir.
All this time we've been
chasing shadows.
If this is right, he's been
under our noses
from the very beginning.
For God sake, what does this
make us look like?
Yes, but you heard Chloe.
We didn't have this before.
It's one thing getting
your man, it's another thing
getting the evidence
to nail him,
I mean, that's the battle.
And battle we shall.
Let's see what Carmichael's
got to say for herself now.
Sir, wait.
You two look like you've lost
a shilling and found a penny.
Sir, we need to be cautious
about disclosing this finding.
AC-12's being disbanded,
DCS Carmichael put in charge
of downgrading Anticorruption.
Yes. But after what
we've achieved here,
I have got a sneaking
suspicion that
AC-12's gonna be around
for a while yet.
And, believe me Kate,
if you want it,
there is a job here for you.
Thank you, sir,
but the point
Steve's making is
this finding is gonna
throw our inquiry
into the spotlight.
Anything that might discredit
AC-12 will be held against us.
What are you
talking about?
Sir, in the course
of our inquiry
into Operation Lighthouse,
certain findings came to light
which relate to you.
DI Arnott's been in contact
with Steph Corbett,
John Corbett's widow.
Yes.
Well, look. I know about that.
She told me.
To be honest, I didn't know
what to make of it,
so I just let it lie.
She also told me about
your painkiller misuse, Steve.
And I saw to it that
you got help
rather than
disciplinary action.
It's called loyalty.
Sir, during
an unlawful search,
an item was found
which relates to
the missing sum
of fifty thousand pounds.
You're not under caution
so anything you say to us
at this time can't be
used in evidence.
That's loyalty right there.
Take a seat.
The money...
I swear to God,
I was tricked.
I was handed an envelope,
I was told it was one thing,
I threw it to one side.
Thought nothing more about it.
It turned out to be
a big bundle of cash.
I tried to return it,
I was blocked at every turn,
before I could hand it in
as evidence, it was found.
That was only half of it.
You must've hidden
the other fifty thousand.
Yes. Well of course I realised
it could be a bribe
that might turn nasty.
So I split it in half,
put one half safe.
In case the OCG came looking.
You know, it was my insurance
against them.
But unfortunately for me,
before I could use it
as leverage against them
or hand it in as evidence
the other half was found.
Instead you gave it
to Steph Corbett.
Officially that money
didn't exist.
I mean, yes.
Yes, I could've handed it in.
But instead I give it
to a young woman
with two wee girls
who'd've been left destitute
because her husband was killed
in the line of duty.
Are we done?
No, sir.
As part of AC-12's inquiry
into Operation Lighthouse
DI Arnott interviewed
Lee Banks,
who disclosed
the source of information
regarding John Corbett being
an undercover police officer.
I swear to God.
I did not disclose
John Corbett as a UCO.
I told Lee Banks
that there was
an informant in the OCG.
No more than that.
I thought that Corbett
when he heard about it,
he would go to ground,
he'd hand himself in
at the nearest
police station.
It was by way
of bringing him in.
I swear to God.
You must have understood
there was a risk
of Corbett
coming to harm.
Well, that is
the worst part of it.
Yes. Yes.
John Corbett
had been involved
in the death
of four police officers,
our Maneet being one of them.
He had beaten
and tortured my own wife.
So I thought he had it
coming to him in spades.
But what I didn't know
was that he was the son
of a woman
I cared
deeply about...
...many years ago.
If there is one thing
I could take back
it would be that.
What a terrible
thing I did.
Giving that money to that
young woman was,
you know,
by way of atonement,
what little there was of it.
Does Steph know
the real reason?
No.
And if she did,
what would she make of it?
Who's gonna judge what I did?
Her? The law?
My colleagues?
God?
Sit down.
AC-12 Interview by
Superintendent Hastings,
DI Fleming, DI Arnott.
Ian Buckells,
you do not have to
say anything,
but it may harm
your defence
if you do not mention
when questioned
something you later
rely on in court.
Anything you do say
may be used in evidence.
Image 124 on screen.
Image 124 shows
Item Reference GGM-13
recovered from your cell
at Blackthorn prison.
Interception of communications
routed via Spain
detected an Internet
Protocol address
matching GGM-13.
Analysis of GGM-13's
hard drive detected
the communication
shown in Image 126.
Analysis of GGM-13's
hard drive
also detected
the communication
shown in Image 129.
Note the misspelling
of "definitely".
Document 105
in your folders.
is a summary of analysis
carried out by
a forensic linguist.
All digital communications
on the hard drive of GGM-13
where examined
using methodologies
based on examples of your
spelling and syntax.
Now, the report concludes,
there is a 95% probability
the messages detected on
GGM-13 were written by you.
Document 112
in your folders.
is a summary
of forensic examination
of GGM-13
to detect fingerprints
and DNA deposits.
Fingerprints and DNA
detected on GGM-13
are a match to your
fingerprints and DNA
with a probability
greater than 99.9%.
Ian Buckells,
did you order
the abduction
of Detective Superintendent
Joanne Davidson
and the attempted murder
of Detective Inspector
Kate Fleming?
No comment.
Did you order
the murder of Gail Vella
and/or James Lakewell?
No comment.
Further examination
of communications
routed via Spain
harvested a number
of Internet Protocol addresses
previously unknown
to this inquiry.
One such address relates
to a property in Edge Park,
17 Maychurch Road.
On screen Image 135.
Recognise this property?
No comment.
Document 194
in your folders.
Document 194 is a
photocopy of the deeds
to 17 Maychurch Road.
Assigning ownership
to a company,
Holte End Holdings, registered
in the Cayman Islands.
Document 197 in your folders.
Holte End Holdings
owns a timeshare property
in Gran Canaria as well as
17 Maychurch Road
with an estimated total value
of three million pounds.
What's your relationship
to Holte End Holdings?
No comment.
I've worked with you
three times now.
Undercover in 2012
with Tony Gates' team.
Undercover in 2017
with Roz Huntley's team.
And this year
at Hillside Lane.
Always the same
crap suits. Dad cars.
I mean, you never put
your hand in your pocket
when it's your round.
You certainly did a grand job
at hiding all this,
I'll give you that.
But you are leading
a double life.
No comment.
Image 138 on screen.
Image 138 shows
Item Reference HS-6.
HS-6 is a laptop computer
detected under the floorboards
of 17 Maychurch Road.
Analysis of HS-6's hard drive
detected the communication
shown in Image 141.
Document 118
in your folders.
is a summary
of forensic examination
of HS-6
to detect fingerprints
and DNA deposits.
Fingerprints and DNA
detected on HS-6
are a match
to your fingerprints and DNA
with a probability
greater than 99.9%.
Ian Buckells, did you order
organised criminal activities
such as the raid
on Eastfield Depot
on February the 15th, 2019?
No comment.
These messages originated
from a device operated by you.
There's no point denying it.
We've shown you
the evidence.
We know from an undercover
officer embedded in the OCG,
DS John Corbett,
from a former member
of the same OCG, Lisa McQueen,
that they sought approval
for the Eastfield robbery.
Yeah, and they got it.
From you, fella.
No comment.
We know from testimony
given to us by Joanne Davidson
that after
Tommy Hunter's death
desperate OCG's
retained clandestine
relationships
with corrupt police officers.
We also know from intercepted
text communications
that these relationships
were orchestrated
by one officer in particular,
once wrongly codenamed "H.",
now referred to
as the Fourth Man.
Ian Buckells,
are you the Fourth Man?
No comment.
The secret life.
The big house. The fast cars.
The bits on the side.
Deborah Devereux. Is that
what turned your head?
No comment.
You know, over the years,
we have investigated
all manner of motives.
but the most mundane
basest motive of them all,
plain simple greed.
You were a DC
on a bent team, Thurwell's,
and as you made your way
up through the ranks,
there wasn't anything that
you wouldn't turn your hand to
as long as
the price was right.
That's the top and bottom
of it, isn't it, fella?
No comment.
Oh, yeah. You rose
through the ranks, all right?
Leaving a trail
of blunders behind you.
How some people
can fail upwards.
Beggars belief.
And all the time we were here
thinking we were chasing
some criminal mastermind.
But no, just like
your old boss, Thurwell,
who botched the Lawrence
Christopher murder enquiry,
your corruption was mistaken
for incompetence.
No comment.
Your cover was so convincing
that even your DCI,
Jo Davidson,
didn't realise that
the blundering fool
she was framing
was actually the person
who was pulling her
strings all along.
Yeah, right.
I'm a blundering fool.
I'm only the one who's made
total mugs out of you lot.
Ian Buckells, do you have
anything to say?
Yeah, you see,
the thing is,
DCS Carmichael is meant to be
taking over, ain't she?
But she ain't in here.
So that makes me wonder
whether she doesn't want
to be associated
with detecting
institutionalised corruption.
Because officially,
institutionalised corruption
don't exist, does it?
Officially, "H"
or "The Fourth Man",
or whatever
you want to call him,
he don't exist neither.
So that makes me realise
that everyone
would be much happier
if this all just went away.
So, I'll take immunity
and witness protection.
-Thank you very much.
-Jesus Christ.
So, give us something.
Who's the top man?
You?
Tommy Hunter was the top man.
After he went they all split
into different OCG's.
I just passed on
the orders.
It used to be
Fairbank and Thurwell,
then it was Hilton
and Cottan,
and now
they've gone,
-it's just...
-You?
The last man standing.
So you did order
the Eastfield robbery?
Well, a haul that size
was bigger than one gang.
The goods needed storing,
fencing, you name it.
Other OCGs wanted in on it.
And you just
put the pieces together?
Yeah, if you like.
And you also put
the pieces together
for Lakewell's murder?
Thurwell's? Gail Vella's?
How many times
do I have to explain to you?
That's the OCGs,
that's their doing.
I just passed things on.
Have you no remorse
for all the suffering
you've caused?
Have you no conscience?
I didn't plan it
or nothing, did I?
They just kept asking me
to sort bigger
and bigger stuff.
Jesus Christ. You're sitting
the other side of this table
asking us
for witness protection.
It's me you're gonna need
protection from.
Would you like
a glass of water?
Image 145.
Now, the murders of Thurwell,
Hilton, Cottan and Lakewell,
I get why the OCG's
were the ones to order those.
Like Tommy Hunter,
their loyalty was in question
and they knew too much.
Gail Vella was different.
We know the last thing
she uncovered before Lee Banks
passed the word on her
to his brother Carl.
It was the corruption
inside the Lawrence
Christopher inquiry.
Tommy Hunter was dead.
His son Darren's a nobody.
The OCG had no good reason
to order such
a high-profile assassination.
But two police officers
involved in that
original corruption
are now high ranking.
You and
Chief Constable Osborne.
And both of you
had a hell of a lot to lose.
Ian Buckells,
did you and/or
Chief Constable Osborne
collude in a conspiracy
to murder Gail Vella?
Take your time, Ian.
It's a simple enough question.
But naturally you're aware
failing to cooperate
with this inquiry
would make you ineligible
for witness protection.
And you're also aware
that confessing
to conspiracy to murder
would make you ineligible
for immunity from prosecution.
No one makes mugs of AC-12.
Interview terminated.
-Nice one, mate.
Well this is weird, ain't it,
wrapping everything up?
Do you think
Buckells will talk?
I hope so.
The Gaffer wants him
protected round the clock
in case the OCG
come after him.
What we gonna do
about the Gaffer?
I believe him.
Yeah, me too.
But if Carmichael takes over,
that's him out anyway.
Yeah, probably me too.
And me,
if I decide to come back.
Will you?
Someone's got to keep
you lot in line.
You don't realise what
you've got until it's gone.
Likewise.
So, do you want to
talk about stuff?
You don't have to,
just when you're ready.
I've been
seeing the MO.
About the painkillers.
Yeah.
I had no idea, mate.
I should have told you.
But, if people knew
I might have been
taken off active duty.
Still might.
I'm sorry.
You just gonna stick
to the one drink?
Why d'you ask?
Still early enough
to drive up to Liverpool.
I'm not sure it's a good idea
to keep seeing Steph.
But, you want to?
Yeah. But what chance
has it got?
You wanna be careful, mate.
You're gonna end up
on your own.
I'm not on my own.
I've got you, mate.
We recognise
police officers experience
stress and pain
in their work.
They can take many forms,
particularly when an officer's
witnessed lethal violence
or taken part in it.
Now that's when
the support of friends,
family, colleagues
can make all the difference.
Me and my partner
are separated.
I've got a son, Josh.
He keeps me going.
And colleagues?
Yeah, I'm lucky.
Working with one of the best.
To be honest, I don't know
what I'd do without him.
Darren Hunter's involvement
in Lawrence Christopher's
murder
was deliberately
suppressed at the time
due to Hunter
being Tommy's son.
I've asked MIT to open
a cold-case inquiry.
Try and get
a conviction this time.
Hmm. Oh, good luck
with that.
Ma'am, I'd like us to consider
opening a parallel inquiry.
Thurwell gave the orders,
no doubt at the behest
of Tommy Hunter,
but it can't only
have been Thurwell
who realised the investigation
was being sabotaged.
Some of Thurwell's
subordinates
are still serving
police officers.
Historic corruption cases
aren't a priority.
Come in. Thank you.
-Steve, Kate.
Sir.
Ted.
-Ma'am.
I thought I should inform you
that I have lodged an appeal
against my
enforced retirement.
The Chief Constable's
about to make a statement.
You mind?
No. Go ahead.
...a tribute
to the tireless dedication
of my officers
who have gained justice
for Gail Vella.
I give you my
personal assurance that
any failings
in the original inquiry
will be thoroughly
investigated.
Lessons will be learned.
Throughout my career
whenever I've encountered
wrongdoing, I've acted.
But, let me be clear.
These are the misdeeds
of a few rotten apples.
And to invoke
institutionalised
police corruption
is an outrageous lie,
and an insult to my officers.
The public don't want
police officers
to be held to account
for every little thing
they're meant to have done.
They want us
to get on with the job.
And that's what we will do.
Thank you.
AC-12. My team.
My officers have just closed
the biggest
anti-corruption operation
that this force has ever seen.
Just caught
the last ring leader
in a clandestine network
of corrupt police officers
and the Chief Constable
hasn't a blind word
to say about it.
Look, proceedings
against Ian Buckells
are now
with the Crown Prosecutor.
It would be premature
to draw conclusions
about how much
was institutionalised
and how much was Ian Buckells
working alone.
Oh, if I may, Ma'am.
Ian Buckells was
an incompetent officer
who was repeatedly promoted
through the ranks.
The more influence that he
gained over police operations,
the more valuable
he became to the OCGs.
Till eventually
this incompetent officer
became the linchpin
in sinister enterprises.
However, none of this,
none of this
could've happened
without the wilful blindness
of those in power.
And those in power
should be held to account.
It devastates me
that we've stopped
standing up
for accountability,
and we've stopped caring
about truth and integrity.
Because it is these
institutional failures
that enable the likes
of Ian Buckells to be corrupt.
Ma'am.
-Thanks, Chloe.
I'll let you out, sir.
Ma'am.
I'd like to make a statement
about my involvement
in the leak
of information
that led
to the unlawful killing
of a serving
police officer,
Detective Sergeant
John Corbett.
In an interview
conducted by me
on a convicted OCG member,
Lee Banks,
in Blackthorn prison
on the 12th of March, 2019...
...I disclosed that there was
an informant in the OCG.
I believe that this
information was passed on.
And whether
or not it was deduced
that Corbett was a UCO,
he was murdered
because of the consequences
of my actions.
What do you expect me to do
with that information?
That's entirely
up to you, Ma'am.
But whatever you do,
you do it because you care
about truth
and accountability.
You do it because
you carry the fire.